# OARD : An Open Real-world based Annotation for Rare Diseases and its Associated Phenotypes
This is a React web app to serve the web app of OARD. The backend is provided by OARD Api. Currently it is hosted on the 
[NCATS AWS server (https://rare.cohd.io/)](https://rare.cohd.io/)


## Analysis
This is an evaluation project for OARD.

- `association_distribution_analysis.R`: evaluate pair-wise association by comparing annotated disease-phenotye paris (from hpo.jax) with not annotated pairs.
- `dataset_meta_analysis.R`: compare high-level dataset summarization for different dataset generated by CUIMC and CHOP EHR.
- `generate_pairwise_statistics.R`: generate pair-wise statistics including chi-square, ln(odds ratio), relative frequency and jaccard-index using raw single concept prevelence and co-occurrence info.
- `pair_vs_annotation_analysis.R`: compare pairs found in the OARD and original hpo.jax annotation.
- `phenotype_coverage_analysis.R`: evaluate the factors (e.g. subontolgoy) affecting the HPO coverage in the OARD dataset.
  - `getHpoFeatures.py`: generate HPO features for `phenotype_coverage_analysis.R`
- `rare_disease_epi_analysis.R`: evaluate the epidemiology found using the OARD for different rare diseases.
  - `oardExtractor.py`: generate OARD features for `rare_disease_epi_analysis.R`
  - `mondoOwlLoader.py`: generate Mondo to OARD mapping for `rare_disease_epi_analysis.R`
- `sample_identified_pairs.R`: generate pair samples (with different confidence level) for manual review.

